Gamepad API.
I have a Gamepad API here with me.
And this is the time where we're going
to start working with our project,
with the Gamepad API.
So this is a green light API, green.
It works everywhere, which is cool.
So, the Gamepad API will let
you connect and use a gamepad.
Any gamepad will work, if it's using
the gamepad interface with the OS.
It can be USB or
it can be connected through Bluetooth.
It works.
And it's a high-level API.
Which means that I don't need
to know the specifics of
this gamepad to actually work with it.
It's a gamepad, so I know it will have
buttons, and it will have access.
That's all I need to know.
And then I can use the gamepad.
So this is of course cool for games.
It's low latency.
It depends on the frequency that you want,
but for
standard situations is low latency.
Actually, how to use that,
it's not what you're expecting.
It happened to me the first
time I used the API.
So I have a gamepad,
the gamepad has buttons, right?
So you say, okay, I wanna take
the click of one button, like mouse.
That's not how that works.
So actually what you need to do is you
create a game loop with request animation
frame.
That's a way to execute
a timer on every frame on
the animation that you have on a game.
Even if you don't have a game,
it doesn't matter.
And you need to check the status
of the gamepad all the time.
And you will get a boolean
if one key is pressed.
So I will get the boolean.
The problem is that I need
to save that somewhere.
And if I keep my finger pressed.
Of course, I'm keeping true for
several seconds.
So if you fire the click handler,
when you see a true you will have
a problem because you
will fire that 100 times.
So requestAnimationFrame can be 60
frames per second, 30 frames per second,
depends on the device.
So you might be triggering that
event handler 30 or 60 times.
So we need to trick it a little bit.
I will show you how I did that
with our project in a second.
And the same happens with the axis.
You will get actually four axes,
because you have in this case two,
and then X and Y on each.
And you get a value from -1 to 1,
depends on where you are.
It's a float value.